
What is contained in this tar-ball is Linux kernel drivers created
by using the information supplied on this forum. I would not have had
the time to gather the needed information my self. So special thanks
to users CFSworks and Thatualle1970 for doing the hard work... In any
case their collected information motivated me to do this set of drivers.

There are a set of drivers which enable the H80i/H100i and the Commander
with a Cooling Node to work with lm-sensors. There is one driver for
H80i/H100i called h80i and one for the cooling node called clink.
These drivers are setup to support lm-sensors through the /sys (sysfs)
interface like many other sensor drivers.

The hardware I have is a "h80i" and a "Commander with a Cooling Node".
So that is what I tested with and which hardware this work supports.
Also I used a modified version of "OpenCorsairLink" as a test-bed
for these drivers. Lastly the lm-sensor as is supplied does not
support sensor hardware that is usb based. So I supplied a patched
version of libsensors. I did this development on Ubuntu 13.10 with
all updates applied.

So the following is what is supplied:
    h80 - This directory contains both drivers, h80i and clink.
    sensors - This directory has patched source for lm-sensors
              supplies libsensors.
    OpenCorsairLink - Has modified version used for this work.

Now some details about each of these parts:



First the Drivers:
-------------------

First these drivers could have been done as one driver module
that supports both since there is much in common between the
two interfaces.  But there are also many differences. So to
keep things simple during the initial development, I elected
to do them as separate drivers. Since these are new drivers,
I elected to do "read-only" initial versions. That means 
settings of modes and parameters, leds and such are not yet
supported. However it looks like it is easy to add these features.

I have been running both drivers for about two weeks (running the
system 24 hours a day) with the above mentioned hardware. Again
this system is running ubuntu 13.10 and has both psensor and
gkrellm running (to cause extra traffic through the drivers).
I did not see any negative events. Also all data returned
looked correct.

Making and installing the drivers should be relatively simple.
If you change directors to h80 and type "make". It will make
both drivers. The makefile should automatically adjust to the
current running version of Linux. Now to install the drivers
you can type "make install". Note that this will not make
these automatically load at boot time. For Ubuntu you need
to two lines to /etc/modules. Also you can use modprobe to
load them manually and rmmod ro unload them.

There is one issue that I found so far. That is when the
system initially boots it does not see the hardware. It looks
like the USB framework (or something else) may be leaving
the hardware in a state that causes the drivers to not find
the hardware. There is a work around, however. I unload
both drivers then use OpenCorsairLink to reset the hardware
and then I reload the drivers and restart sensord. I added
the following lines to /etc/rc.local to automate this work
around:

   echo "reloading h80i driver."
   rmmod h80i
   /usr/local/bin/OpenCorsairLink -i 1
   modprobe h80i
   echo "reloading clink driver."
   rmmod clink
   /usr/local/bin/OpenCorsairLink -i 2
   modprobe clink
   /etc/init.d/sensord restart

I have not yet had time to investigate this problem and since
the work around seems to always work, its not as important...



The OpenCorsairLink Command:
-----------------------------

This command  seemed like a good test-bed to do quick protocol
and hardware interface testing. Also to make it easier to move
test code directly into the driver, I converted the program from
C++ to C. Then I added an option to select which hardware and
interface to use.

The program may be found in the directory OpenCorsairLink. There
is a README file in that directory that talks about how to build
the program. Note that the build is somewhat ruff and I must
apologize for that! I copied the finished program into
/usr/local/bin. 



The lm-sensors library libsensors:
-----------------------------

Most of the lm-sensors package from ubuntu 13.10 is in the directory
sensors. If you go into sensors/lm-sensors/lm_sensors-3.3.3 and
type make. It should make all of lm-sensors. But you only need to
take the library modules libsensors.a and libsensors.so.4.3.2
and replace the ones on your system. In case someone wants to
do this on a different distro, I included a patch file in
sensors/lm-sensors/corsair.patch to help apply the changes to an-
other version...



Now one closing note. If you find this stuff helpful then you
are welcome to it for use. Also if you make changes and or
improvements then please please give it back to the community!
If you need help with it, send to a message and I will try to
help.

Again I want to thank the users which made this code possible
by posting the information in the forums page:

http://forum.corsair.com/v3/showthread.php?t=120092&highlight=linux&page=3

This is the main motivation that caused me to write these drivers.
So thank you CFSworks and Thatualle1970!!


Thank You
barryha

barryha@earthlink.net
