
The drivers in the directory h80 are drivers for the "Corsair H80i/H100i"
enclosed water coolers. Also the Corsair Link "Commander with a Cooling
Node", attached. These drivers are setup to support lm-sensors through
the /sys (sysfs) interface. These are the first version of these
drivers and they supply only read only information for lm-sensors.
Settings of modes and such are not done at this point. While it looks
like it is easy to add these. I did not want to do this until I am
sure any major bugs that may exist are "shaken-out" through testing
and the drivers have some amount of "road-time"... Also I did not
do the LED support for the H80i or the LED-node. Again for the same
reasons...  I have been running both drivers for about two weeks 
(running the system 24 hours a day) with the above
mentioned hardware (which is what I have). This system is running
ubuntu 13.10 and has both psensor and gkrellm running (to cause
extra traffic through the drivers) on top of the lm-sensor for that 
version of Linux.  I did not see any negative events and what
looks like real and meaningful results have been getting reported
for the test time. 

There is a makefile in the directory that should automatically make the
driver modules and can be used to install the modules in the correct
directory. Just simply running make will build the drivers. To install
them type "make install". This does not make the driver automatically
load however. Since making that happen can be different for different
distro's, I elected to not add that here. I did my development on
ubuntu 13.10 and for that you need to add entries in /etc/modules
Also once you have the drivers installed you could use modprobe
to manually load the drivers and rmmod to unload them. 

I used the OpenCorsairLink from the forum page to develop these
drivers. I converted it from C++ to C since it makes it a good
test bed for the driver (its much easier to do it in user-land
first) and any tests I did could be easily
tranfered to the driver. I supplied this code in the tar-ball.
Note that there is a problem with the driver's detecting hardware
during early booting and the work around makes use of this
hacked up program (see the comment at the begining of either
driver module source file). Also since current lm-sensors libsensors
does not support usb sensors there is a patched version (again
from ubuntu 13.10 code). I also supplied a patch file...
 
Now I want to explain why I did these drivers. The main reason is 
that I have a system with the hardware and for what I do with it,
it is not reasonable or exceptable to run Windows on it. I am an
Operating system engineer and use it to access other systems related
to my job.  I was reading through the Corsair forums and found
that some other users did the hard work of finding out how the
hardware's interfaces work. So I thought I would write Linux
drivers and give it back to those who did this hard work...
When I have time I am planning on submitting these drivers for
inclusion in the kernel and the changes to lm-sensor to support
the drivers.  If you find this stuff helpful, please take it
and use it! If you improve it give it back to the community..

Now I want to thank the users which made this code possible
by posting the information in the forums page:

http://forum.corsair.com/v3/showthread.php?t=120092&highlight=linux&page=3

This is the motivation that caused me to write these drivers.
So thank you CFSworks and Thatualle1970!!


Thank You
barryha

barryha@earthlink.net
Barryha
